Silverratio Jeopardy
====================

Silverratio Jeopardy is a free implementation of a game resembling a
popular quiz show. It is written in Haskell using Gtk2Hs as GUI
Toolkit.

This package consists of three programs:

* jeopardy: This is the game

* jeopardy-editor: Editor for data files used by Jeopardy.

* jeopardy-compiler: Parses the data files generated by
  jeopardy-editor, interpretes the contained text as LaTeX, compiles
  it with LaTeX into pictures and outputs a compiled version of the
  data files. These "*.jdc" files (Jeopardy Data Compiled) can be
  loaded by the game.

* jeopardy-dump: Pretty-prints Jeopardy datasheet sources (i.e., *.jd
  files).

Dependencies
============

Haskell packages: see silverratio-jeopardy.cabal.

Helper Applications:

* sox/play

TeX Dependencies (runtime dependencies for jeopardy-compiler):

* Packages: standalone, ngerman (FIXME), anyfontsize.

Building
========

This package uses stack. Thus, assuming a working stack installation,
building should be as simple as typing

    $ stack build

Installation
============

    $ stack install

Datasheets
==========

The actualy content (answers & questions) is contained in so called
"jeopardy data files". A filename suffix of ".jd" specifies a jeopardy
data source file -- a file which can be edited with jeopardy-editor; a
filename suffix of ".jdc" specifies a jeopardy data file in compiled
form. The program jeopardy-compiler is responsible for compiling *.jd
files to *.jdc files (using LaTeX).

The repository https://github.com/mtesseract/silverratio-jeopardy-data
contains datasheets.

How to use
==========

Create a new jeopardy data template:

    $ jeopardy-editor --create foo.jd

Edit the data file:

    $ jeoaprdy-editor foo.jd

Compile the source file:

    $ jeopardy-compiler foo.jd foo.jdc

Run jeopardy:

    $ jeopardy

and, using the GUI, load the data file foo.jdc.

Sound Effects
=============

The program uses quite a few audio effects. The audio effects
installed by this program (they are located in the directory "Sounds")
are only placeholder files. They should be replaced by better audio
files. (If you know of matching, free(!) audio effects, please tell
me.)

A Note on the Buzzers
=====================

I have built buzzers which -- from the point of view of the computer
-- behave as a plain USB keyboard by soldering buzzers to a USB
keyboard controller. Each buzzer sends a unique digit to the
computer. Thus, the game simply reacts to digits send from a
keyboard. In other words, you can simply press the digits on your
keybaord to simulate buzzer presses. For this to work, the game admin
interface must have the focus -- the other window, which is to be
presented via beamer, should never have the focus while playing!

Artwork
=======

Feel free to use better looking images (they are located in the
directory "Images").

Author/License
==============

This program is written by Moritz Schulte
<mtesseract@silverratio.net>. It is copyrighted under the GNU General
Public License v3.
